[Term Entry] SwiftUI View Modifier: .textFieldStyle() (#1545)
Codecademy/docs: content/swiftui/concepts/viewmodifier/terms/textFieldStyle/textFieldStyle.md

---
Title: '.textFieldStyle()'

> Description: 'Applies a specified style to a TextField'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Applies a specified style to a TextField.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Mobile Development'
  - 'iOS'
Tags:
  - 'SwiftUI'
  - 'SwiftUI ViewModifiers'
  - 'Xcode'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

The **`.textFieldStyle()`** modifier applies a specified style to a [`TextField`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views/textfield).

## Syntax

```pseudo
        TextField("label", text: $bindingValue)
            .textFieldStyle(style)
```

> The style passed as an argument to `.textFieldStyle()` is applied to the `TextField`. Built-in styles are available in Swift UI and it's also possible to create custom styles.

Reviewer: Is it possible to list at least some of the built-in styles with descriptions?

Author: @SSwiniarski 
Thank you for reviewing and for the suggestions!
I added in some of the built-in styles with descriptions.

---
Title: '.textFieldStyle()'

> Description: 'Applies a specified style to a TextField.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Applies a specified style to a text field.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Mobile Development'
  - 'iOS'
Tags:
  - 'SwiftUI'
  - 'SwiftUI ViewModifiers'
  - 'Xcode'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

> The **`.textFieldStyle()`** modifier applies a specified style to a [`TextField`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views/textfield).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`.textFieldStyle()`** modifier applies a specified style to a [text field](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views/textfield).
```

Reviewer 2: Either this or tack on "view" to read: `TextField` view.

## Syntax

```pseudo

>         TextField("label", text: $bindingValue)
>             .textFieldStyle(style)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TextField("label", text: $bindingValue)
    .textFieldStyle(style)
```

```

> The style passed as an argument to `.textFieldStyle()` is applied to the `TextField`. Built-in styles are available in Swift UI and it's also possible to create custom styles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `style` passed as an argument to `.textFieldStyle()` is applied to the `TextField`. Built-in styles are available in SwiftUI and it's also possible to create custom styles.
```

> > **Note:** If `.textFieldStyle()` is called on a [`View`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views), the specified style will be applied to every `TextField` within that view, unless it has its own `.textFieldStyle()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If `.textFieldStyle()` is called on a [view](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views), the specified style will be applied to every text field within that view, unless it has its own `.textFieldStyle()`.
```

> Here are some of the available built-in `TextField` styles:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are some of the available built-in text field styles:
```

- `.automatic` applies the default style to a text field.
- `.plain` does not apply any styles to a text field.
- `.roundedBorder` applies a rounded border to a text field.

## Examples

> The following example shows a `TextField` contained in a [`Vstack`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views/vstack), with a built-in style applied:

Reviewer 3: Noticed a minor change needed here:
```suggestion
The following example shows a `TextField` contained in a [`VStack`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views/vstack), with a built-in style applied:
```

Author: @KTom101 thank you for noticing that!

```swift
import SwiftUI

struct myView: View {

    @State private var myName: String = "Sam Swift"

    var body: some View {
        VStack {
            TextField("Name", text: $myName)
                .textFieldStyle(.roundedBorder)
        }
        .padding()
    }
}
```

In the above example, `.textFieldStyle(.roundedBorder)` is called on the `TextField`, applying a rounded border style.

This will display:

![SwiftUI ViewModifier .textFieldStyle()](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/swiftui-textFieldStyle-roundedBorder.png)

> The next example shows four `TextField`s with different styles applied to them:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next example shows four text fields with different styles applied to them:
```

```swift
import SwiftUI

struct myView: View {

    @State private var value1: String = "TextField with .automatic style"
    @State private var value2: String = "TextField with .plain style"
    @State private var value3: String = "TextField with .roundedBorder style"
    @State private var value4: String = "TextField with custom style"

    var body: some View {

        VStack() {

            TextField("Automatic Style", text: $value1)
                .textFieldStyle(.automatic)

            TextField("Plain Style", text: $value2)
                .textFieldStyle(.plain)

            TextField("Rounded Border Style", text: $value3)
                .textFieldStyle(.roundedBorder)

            TextField("Custom Style", text: $value4)
        }
        .padding()
        .background(.purple)

>         // ↓ custom textFieldStyle applied to the VStack view

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        // ↓ Custom textFieldStyle applied to the VStack view
```

        .textFieldStyle(WhiteBorder())
    }
}

> // struct creating a custom textFieldStyle

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Structure creating a custom textFieldStyle
```

struct WhiteBorder: TextFieldStyle {
    func _body(configuration: TextField<Self._Label>) -> some View {
        configuration
            .padding()
            .overlay(
                RoundedRectangle(cornerRadius: 30)
                    .stroke(Color.white, lineWidth:2)
            )
    }
}
```

> The example above has some `TextField`s contained in a `VStack` with a purple background.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example above has some text fields contained in a `VStack` with a purple background.
```

---
Title: '.textFieldStyle()'
Description: 'Applies a specified style to a TextField.'
Subjects:
  - 'Mobile Development'
  - 'iOS'
Tags:
  - 'SwiftUI'
  - 'SwiftUI ViewModifiers'
  - 'Xcode'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

The **`.textFieldStyle()`** modifier applies a specified style to a [`TextField`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views/textfield).

## Syntax

```pseudo
        TextField("label", text: $bindingValue)
            .textFieldStyle(style)
```

The style passed as an argument to `.textFieldStyle()` is applied to the `TextField`. Built-in styles are available in Swift UI and it's also possible to create custom styles.

> **Note:** If `.textFieldStyle()` is called on a [`View`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views), the specified style will be applied to every `TextField` within that view, unless it has its own `.textFieldStyle()`.

> ## Built-in `TextField` Styles

Reviewer: I would get rid of this header.

Here are some of the available built-in `TextField` styles:

> - `.automatic` applies the default style to a text field.

Reviewer: Remove the line breaks between list items.

---
Title: '.textFieldStyle()'
Description: 'Applies a specified style to a TextField.'
Subjects:
  - 'Mobile Development'
  - 'iOS'
Tags:
  - 'SwiftUI'
  - 'SwiftUI ViewModifiers'
  - 'Xcode'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

The **`.textFieldStyle()`** modifier applies a specified style to a [`TextField`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views/textfield).

## Syntax

```pseudo
        TextField("label", text: $bindingValue)
            .textFieldStyle(style)
```

The style passed as an argument to `.textFieldStyle()` is applied to the `TextField`. Built-in styles are available in Swift UI and it's also possible to create custom styles.

> **Note:** If `.textFieldStyle()` is called on a [`View`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views), the specified style will be applied to every `TextField` within that view, unless it has its own `.textFieldStyle()`.

> ## Built-in `TextField` Styles

Reviewer: This might be better as a bulleted list than as a separate section with sub-headers.

Author: @SSwiniarski I changed this to a bulleted list, thanks for the suggestion!
